---
title: How to make bootable Windows USB from Linux for old computers
date: 2020-10-22 01:00:00 -02:00
categories:
- Tutorial
tags:
- linux
comment: 
info: fechado.
type: post
layout: post
sha: 11c44c01bb712346f55604baae6c4281da02e13d
---

# Install ms-sys
You will need ms-sys to write a Master Boot Record (MBR) to the USB drive.

Make sure you have installed the...

- gcc
- make
- gettext

...repository packages in order to compile the source code.

Download the latest source code from <http://ms-sys.sourceforge.net/>

Un-tar the source code and change into the source code directory:

`tar xvzf ms-sys*`

`cd ms-sys-2.7.0`

Compile and install the binary:

`make`

`sudo make install`

ms-sys will install to /usr/local/bin. Be sure to add this path if it is not in the root user’s environment PATH:

`su -`

`export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/bin`

# GParted to make an NTFS partition 

Once you have gparted installed, launch it from application launcher, click on dropdown menu in top right corner and select your external USB drive. Make sure that you have selected the correct drive and then click on the “Device” menu. Click on “Create Partition Table…” to completely format the drive.

On the next screen, ensure that the “partition table type” is “msdos” and click on the “Apply” button.

Once the partition table has been created, right click on unallocated space and click on “New” menuentry.

In the “File system:” dropdown menu, select “ntfs” and click on the “Add” button.

Next, click on the green tick button on the top toolbar to apply the changes.

# ms-sys to write a MBR

Run "ms-sys -n" on the partition...

`ms-sys -n /dev/sdX1`

...and "ms-sys -7" on the whole USB device itself

`ms-sys -7 /dev/sdX`

# Copy the files from the Windows ISO to the NTFS partition

Mount the USB Drive

`sudo mkdir -p /mnt/flash`

`sudo mount /dev/sdX1 /mnt/flash`

Mount the Windows ISO

`sudo mkdir -p /mnt/iso`

`sudo mount -o loop /tmp/windows.iso /mnt/iso`

Copy the Contents of the Windows ISO to the USB Drive

`sudo cp -av /mnt/iso/* /mnt/flash/`

Unmount the USB Drive

`sudo umount /mnt/flash`

# Boot from the USB Drive

Plugin the USB drive to the computer you want to install Windows on and boot to USB-HDD or USB-ZIP.